h1. OkudaKit
        
h3. What is it?

An open source (BSD-license) **Cocoa Framework** for adding **syntax highlighting** to Cocoa applications using **CSS**. It was started by "Todd Ditchendorf":http://twitter.com/itod. This fork delivering iOS support is courtesy of Jeremy Agostino.

h3. Why is it cool?

OkudaKit produces syntax highlighted NSAttributedStrings for use in NSTextViews (or similar display outlets) via **CSS stylesheets**. 

h3. How?

Provide a simple **BNF-style grammar** for a language (like, say, JSON) and a **CSS stylesheet** which lists style rules for the productions found in the language grammar. Name your grammar and CSS files something like json.grammar ("example":http://parsekit.com/okudakit/json.grammar.txt) and json.css ("example":http://parsekit.com/okudakit/json.css.txt), put them in your app's bundle, and add a few lines of code like this:

<pre>
NSString *s = ... // get a JSON string
OKSyntaxHighlighter *highlighter = [OKSyntaxHighlighter syntaxHighlighter];
NSAttributedString *str = [highlighter highlightedStringForString:s ofGrammar:@"json"];
[textView setString:str]; // display
</pre>
        
_Voilà_, syntax-highlighted JSON.

h3. Why does it suck?

OkudaKit is currently at version 0.1 which gives you an idea of how mature I think it is. Current suckiness includes (but is not limited to):
            
* No error recovery. Your display string must match the grammar provided.
* Displayed Syntax Highlighting is read-only. No support for live syntax highlight updating (needed for text editors).
* Only 3 languages are currently supported: HTML, CSS, and JSON. But adding new languages is easy.
            
I'm working on these problems now. Stay tuned.

h3. What are the requirements?

* Mac OS X Leopard or later
* iOS 3.2/4.0 or later
* "ParseKit":http://parsekit.com (included in the OkudaKit source)


h3. WebKit isn't required?

No.

h3. iPhone OS?

iOS 3.2/4.0 and higher has support for NSAttributedString but it's somewhat gutted compared to the Mac OS X version. One of the reasons I forked this was to make OkudaKit actually build on iOS. You'd have to find a third party library to display any attributed text, since things like UILabel don't have any support for it.
